About CEDDL Analytics
----------------------

Ceddl Analytics is the corporate service that monitors and evaluates the effectiveness and efficiency of the European
ceddlbyexample.com. Ceddl Analytics is installed on a webserver. Both the infrastructure and software are under the full
control of the owner of ceddlbyexample.com domain.
EU data protection legislation.

Ceddl Analytics' privacy protection has been validated by the Data Protection Officer of the European Commission

Ceddl Analytics is maintained by the Commission’s Directorate-General for Informatics and is provided as a service to
website owners across the European Commission to ensure that our online communication is targeted, relevant and
cost-efficient.

The service is present on Commission owned websites and pages under the europa.eu domain and its subdomains, but is
implemented mainly on the main Commission subdomain ec.europa.eu.

The European Commission manages the [inter-institutional website](https://europa.eu/european-union/)(top-level pages of
the europa.eu domain) on behalf of all the EU institutions. The Ceddl Analytics service is also present on the top
pages of the europa.eu website but requires separate consent. The privacy policy for the inter-institutional website is
available [here](https://europa.eu/european-union/abouteuropa/privacy-policy_en).

EU institutions and bodies other than the European Commission currently use their own analytics systems. Visit their
legal notice pages for more information.

[The European Commission's legal notice](https://ec.europa.eu/info/legal-notice_en)

Data protection Information and measures
----------------------------------------

**First party cookies**

Ceddl Analytics is configured to use the domain europa.eu (used by European institutions' websites) and to store
first-party cookies that expire and will be automatically removed from the user’s device after 13 months.

A cookie is a small piece of data that a website stores on the visitor’s computer or mobile device. There are two types
of cookies – session and persistent cookies.

Read more about our cookies [here](https://ec.europa.eu/info/cookies_en)

Cookies used by Ceddl Analytics enable the European Commission to collect the following information about visitors that
is used to prepare aggregated, anonymous statistics reports of visitors’ activity

* internet protocol (IP)address (anonymised)
* location: country, region, city, approximate latitude and longitude (geolocation)
* date and time of the request (visit to the site)
* title of the page being viewed (page title)
* URL of the page being viewed (page URL)
* URL of the page that was viewed prior to the current page (referrer URL)
* screen resolution of the user's device
* local time in visitor's time zone
* files that were clicked and downloaded (download)
* links to an outside domain that were clicked (outlink)
* page generation time: the time it takes for webpages to be generated by the webserver and then downloaded by the
  visitor (page speed)
* main language of the browser being used (accept language header)
* browser version, browser plugins (PDF, Flash, Java) operating system version, device identifier (user agent header)
* language of the visited page
* campaigns
* site search
* events

To improve the accuracy of the reports, certain information is also stored in first party cookies and then collected by
Ceddl Analytics:

* random unique visitor ID
* time of the first visit by the specific visitor
* time of the previous visit by the specific visitor
* number of visits by the specific visitor

The European Commission retains full responsibility and control of the data collected through first party cookies by
storing the data in servers fully controlled by the European Commission.

The data collected contains no personal information and the random unique visitor ID that is generated by the software
cannot be used to identify a particular visitor. Data will not be shared with any other organisations for marketing,
market research or commercial purposes.

'Do not track' preference
-------------------------

“Do Not Track” is a technology that enables visitors to opt-out from being tracked by websites for whatever purpose,
including the use of analytics services, advertising networks and social platforms.

To enable the “do not track” option in your browser follow the respective link below:

* [Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/how-do-i-turn-do-not-track-feature)
* [Internet Explorer](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17288/windows-internet-explorer-11-use-do-not-track)
* [Microsoft Edge](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/4468242/microsoft-edge-browsing-data-and-privacy-microsoft-privacy)
* [Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/114836?hl=en-GB&ref_topic=3421433)
* [Safari](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/safari/prevent-websites-from-tracking-you-sfri40732/mac#ibrw88300566)
* [Opera](https://help.opera.com/en/presto/be-safe-and-private/#notrack)

If your preferred browser is not in the above list of browsers, visit the vendor's website for more information.

Consent to collecting your browsing experience for anonymized statistics
------------------------------------------------------------------------

When opening a page where Ceddl Analytics is enabled, the browsing experience is registered by the service.
Simultaneously a dedicated banner may appear, giving you the possibility to accept or refuse cookies.

If you refuse cookies, you will also stop the Ceddl Analytics service. If you choose, though, to contribute your
browsing experience on our websites as part of the anonymous statistics, you will enable us to significantly improve the
performance of our communication, its outreach and its cost-efficiency.

If you have enabled the “Do not track” option in your web browser, we will respect your choice and your browsing
experience on the Commission websites will not be processed by the service.

Choosing not to participate to the anonymised statistics of Ceddl Analytics does not affect your navigation experience
on our sites. You can decide to withdraw or give your consent at any time. To see your current status and manage your
consent, please check the corresponding box below:

Opt-out complete; your visits to this website will not be recorded by the Web Analytics tool. Note that if you clear
your cookies, delete the opt-out cookie, or if you change computers or Web browsers, you will need to perform the
opt-out procedure again.

You are currently opted out. Click here to opt in.

{ "service" : "eaoptout", "formID" : "myAnalyticsId" }

Restricted access to information
--------------------------------

All analytics data communication is encrypted via HTTPS protocol. The anonymised analytical reports generated by Europa
Analytics can only be accessed through the European Commission Authentication System (ECAS) by the European institution
staff or by duly authorised external sub-contractors, who may be required to analyse, develop and/or maintain certain
sites.

Masking of visitors' IP addresses
---------------------------------

Ceddl Analytics uses an IP de-identification mechanism that automatically masks a portion of each visitor's IP address,
effectively making it impossible to identify a particular Europa visitor via the IP address.

Note that for statistical purposes the city and country of origin are determined from the full IP address, then stored
and aggregated before the anonymisation mask is applied.

Visitor logs
------------

Ceddl Analytics automatically deletes the anonymous unaggregated data after 13 months.

Anonymous and aggregated data are stored for an indefinite period by the European Commission for analysis purposes.

Contact
-------

Any specific question concerning the storage and use of Ceddl Analytics data can be sent via
the[contact form](https://europa.eu/european-union/contact/mailbox_en)on europa.eu